= Dawanda

== Description

The Dawanda gem provides a friendly Ruby interface to the Dawanda API

== Installation
 
Installing the latest stable version is simple:

    sudo gem install dawanda_client
    sudo gem install oauth --pre

== Usage

The Dawanda API is read-only - all you need to gain access is an API Key (available 
from http://dawanda.com/apps).  Once you have your API key, set it in your script:

    require 'rubygems'
    require 'dawanda'
    Dawanda.api_key = 'foobar'
    Dawanda.country = 'de'

From there, you can make any calls to the API that you need. Note: Any call to the API can fail.
In case of an error an exception is raised. So make sure your API client codes handles it.

=== Users

If you're starting with a user, the easiest way is to use the Dawanda.user method:

    >> user = Dawanda.user('meko')
    => #<Dawanda::User:0x141bf58 @result={"name"=>"meko", "city"=>"auma", "is_seller"=>true, ...
    >> user.name
    => "meko"
    >> user.id
    => 13008

For more information about what is available for a user, check out the documentation
for Dawanda::User.

== Shops

Each user may optionally have a shop.  If a user is a seller, he / she also has an
associated shop object:

  >> user.seller?
  => true
  >> shop = user.shop
  => #<Dawanda::Shop:0x14170c0 @result={"is_vacation"=>false, "name"=>"MEKO STORE" ...
  >> shop.name
  => "MEKO STORE"
  
More information about shops can be found in the documentation for Dawanda::Shop.
  
== Products

Dawanda::Shop, Dawanda::Category, Dawanda::Color contain multiple products:

  >> shop.products
  => [#<Dawanda::Product:0x1405f3c @result={"price"=>{"cents"=>2500, "currency_code"=>"EUR"}, "name"=>"Harmonie", ... ]
  >> product = shop.products.first
  => #<Dawanda::Product:0x1405f3c @result={"price"=>{"cents"=>2500, "currency_code"=>"EUR"}, "name"=>"Harmonie", ...
  >> product.name
  => "Harmonie"
  >> product.description
  => "Harmonie \n- Inselsymposium / Gimmlitztal \n- Eiche \n- geölt \n- L:150 / Durchmesser ca. 28cm"
  >> product.product_url
  => ""http://de.dawanda.com/product/1-Harmonie""
  >> product.view_count
  => 155
  >> product.created_at
  => Sat Sep 16 01:35:05 +0200 2006

See the documentation for [Dawanda::Product|http://wiki.github.com/dawanda/dawanda-api/data-type-product] for more information.


== Category

Dawanda categories are organized in a tree. To get the top level of categories, you can call:

  >> category = Dawanda::Category.top.first
  => #<Dawanda::Category:0x138c5d8 @result={"product_count"=>0, "name"=>"2000", "id"=>218,
  >> category.parent
  => nil
  >> category.children
  => [#<Dawanda::Category:0x1395cb4 @result={"product_count"=>4851, "name"=>"2001", "id"=>222, ...
  >> category.product_count
  => 100

== Exception

Chances are, that for some reason a HTTP request to the dawanda API can fail. This can have many reasons, either
missing network connection or a wrong id. In case the HTTP status code is different von 2xx or 3xx an exception containing
a meaningful error message is raised.
  
  >> category = Dawanda::Category.find_by_id(2323)
  => RuntimeError: {"error":{"status":404,"message":"The Category 2323 could not be found"}}
 
== OAuth

In addition to the public API, DaWanda has an OAuth API to securely provide access to user-specific data. For further information on what OAuth is and how it works see [the official OAuth website|http://oauth.net/].

For using the OAuth API you have to request a consumer key and consumer secret at [http://dawanda.com/apps].

To recieve information you first need to be authorized by the user. To request an authorization do the following:

  >> Dawanda::OAuth.connect(OAUTH_KEY, OAUTH_SECRET)
  >> redirect_to Dawanda::OAuth.authorize_url

Now the user gets redirected to DaWanda to confirm you, once.

DaWanda will redirect the user back to a given callback URL, where you now can create an 'Access Token' to make API requests.

  >> Dawanda::OAuth.connect(OAUTH_KEY, OAUTH_SECRET, params)
  >> @access_token = Dawanda::OAuth.access_token
    
  >> # save access token to user for later use
  >> session[:oauth_access_token] = Marshal.dump(@access_token)

You can restore this token at every time to do calls on the API for a specific user. To restore the token you can do the folowing:

  >> Dawanda::OAuth.connect(OAUTH_KEY, OAUTH_SECRET)
  >> Dawanda::OAuth.access_token = Marshal.load(session[:oauth_access_token])

Now you can do API requests: 

  >> # get user from dawanda
  >> @user = Dawanda::OAuth.get_user
